[MUSIC]
>> Justin Meyer: If you can get this this
is like closures you actually I think
understand more about JavaScript
development or JavaScript.
How it works as a language and
90% of the developers
I'd say most people don't really get
the mechanism for how this works.
So again, this code.
Jobs are just comes to
it you know parses it,
then builds it all into expressions,
and is gonna run
essentially the first expression although
I'm in a run kind of two at ones.
It's gonna say I'm gonna first
build a function in memory, and
like we said functions also
know about parent call object.
And then,
I'm gonna do the counter equals part.
So again, it doesn't know what's
going on inside that function it just
knows there's a function.
Then it's going to run
that function counter.
And every time a function is run there's
this magical box that
variables can go into.
And while this code is running,
any variables that this code
creates are put into that box.
So here count is gonna go in and
it's going to be 0.
Now, this function
returns another function.
So just like before when we created and
saw the counter function.
We're gonna create another
function in memory.
And we're gonna return that
function's memory address
essentially to be set as the C1 variable.
So C1 will point to that
function in memory.
>> Justin Meyer: Then we're gonna call c1.
>> Justin Meyer: And whenever you call
a function a call object is created and
it's going to run then the code.
So whenever a function is called
call object is created then it runs
the code for the function.
So in this case, c1 is that inner
function and we're gonna run ++count.
It's gonna try to look for a count
variable in that variable but we didn't
create a count or sorry you can look for
a count variable in that call object.
But we didn't really create,
we didn't do a var count inside here.
So there's not one in here.
So it's gonna keep looking up
to try to find a count variable,
find that count variable and
increment it and then return.
Because c1 is a function itself,
it's gonna return the incremented
value of count as one.
And we're gonna call c1 again.
Same function in memory,
we're gonna call again.
But every time you call a function
a new call object is created, and
that same process of trying to find
count in memory is gonna be looked
up.
>> Justin Meyer: Let's give a look at this
two.
>> Student: Do you wanna use return
then every time you put another
function inside that function?
>> Justin Meyer: No, you couldn't.
It's possible that you
could do like window.foo
equals a function and
then you could I could call foo down here.
But it would were it overwrite that foo
property every time with a new function.
So the cool thing about this is down here
if I were to call I could still keep
calling c1 and it would still be
>> Justin Meyer: It would still
be counting c1s variable and
not c2s kind of closed variable.
>> Justin Meyer: In some ways,
you might like have used jay creek code.
We have a lot of nested functions,
you're adding event handlers and doing.
Ajax calls and things like that.
We have a lot of nested functions.
That's the exact same thing
that's going on here.
We have function defined
inside of another function.
It can reference the variables
in the parent function.
That's how close this count can access
the count in its outer function.
And it can also reference the other
variable c1 and c2 if it really wanted to,
even though itself is being
created as c1 and c2.
That's just because closures walk, it
just keeps walking up these chains until
it finds a variable.
>> Student 2: Maybe,
just, there's a question
about what is the parentheses
after it mean?
>> Justin Meyer: When we're just putting
a call object, like,
drawing out like that?
It's our way of representing that this
is a call object, that was created
when you called the counter function.
>> Student 2: No way, I think like if you
have var c1, on the screen it's just c1
and then put your c1 parenthesis after.
Open, close.
>> Justin Meyer: So
if I did-
>> Alexis Abril: [CROSSTALK] I did c1,
semicolon and then c1 so c1 is just
a reference to the function in memory.
Just to point that function c1 with
the open-close parentheses is doing two
things.
It's finding that function in memory,
following the pointer to its function
memory, and then invoking, or
calling that function in memory.
If that makes sense.
And in the process,
creating our call object here.
What this is, a nice way to do this is,
a really nice example too,
of how we In the city links,
private variables with JavaScript.
With this kind of concept, this knowledge,
count is not always accessible.
I saw in the chat there was some,
why isn't count accessible on the window,
on the global scope.
This is how we can prevent or keep a nice
closed, that's where we'll use the word.
Set of variables that we wanna use in our
methods.
>> Alexis Abril: If that answers your
question.
>> Justin Meyer: So one fun kind of
technical aside for the computer sciencey
nerdy Folks in here like me,
I mean step back.
So when a call object is really,
so most are,
every language has the idea of a stack,
you might heard of a call stack.
So when a function is called,
any variables created inside that
function are kinda added to the stack and
when the function exits that part of
the stack is popped off and discarded.
So you enter a function variables,
get stored on this thing called a stack.
And then, when the function
exits they're popped off.
That's why if you've ever had a stack
overflow and not the question site.
The actual stack overflow error.
That's because you keep calling so
many functions that the stack it's so
big, that there's just
you run out of memory.
A call object is really
a part of the call stack so
each individual part of a call stack
that represents a single function.
That's called an activation frame.
And a call object is really
an activation frame.
So one function one invocation of
functions all of it's arguments and
variables stored in something but
it can be made permanent.
A call object is some is a call object or
sorry a call object is
a activation frame that
can exist past when
the function has exited.
So that's why I'll start over here.
So when I call this counter function,
in some way, what what JavaScript's really
doing internally is it's creating
a new activation frame for
the invocation of this function
that stores all variables on it.
And because it's returning a function
that has c1 pointing to it
and this function then points
to the activation frame.
Really, there the call object.
It knows I'm not gonna
garbage collect that then,
because I'm not the one
when the function exits.
I'm not gonna pop that activation frame.
I'm not gonna discard it.
I'm gonna save it, because something
might still want to talk to a variable
inside this activation frame and
that's this count here.
That's the very technical deep reason
like can a computer science the reason.
Closures are really just someone was like,
hey, we've got this stack,
let's make a,
with activation frames what happen
if someone still wanted to access
the items in the activation frame later?
And how would we make that permanent and
the mechanism at which JavaScript uses
to make activation frames permanent is
a function that's created
inside of another function.
Your function, then if functions
know about their parent call object,
it will make that call object permanent,
as long as and keep it there, as long as,
somehow, something is
essentially referencing that
function.
>> Student 2: Question, is the activation
frame still on the stack?
>> Justin Meyer: It will be on the stack
while this function is running and
at the end when the function exits.
It will be popped off and
kept somewhere else.
I think that actually
thread that I posted.
That were as working through
this with the VA core member
he I forgot what he said,
at what point it's moved off.
It's definitely moved off the stack.
I don't remember exactly
what's done with it.
Cool.
Sorry to get all super hyper technical.
But I enjoy it.
[LAUGH] Hopefully you guys do to.
It's not just just write a comment
tell me not to talk about that stuff.
I won't be offended.
So to finish this, c1 is created.
Is return from here it call c1 it's going
to run itself, but try to find this count
variable incremented to one,
then we're going to call c1 again.
Every time a function is called,
a new call object is created just like
an activation frame is put on the stack.
And it's gonna try to look for count,
but because it can't find count,
it's gonna walk up these
little magic references,
to find that version account
in incremented to two.
Now, here comes the crazy part.
We're gonna call counter again.
So whenever a function is created, or
called in new call object is created.
And that functions code
is gonna be run and
any variables created.
While that function is or is running
are gonna go in that call object so
this is gonna get a different
separate count variable and then,
within this function another
function is gonna be returned or
created and returned as c2.
So then we call c2,
>> Justin Meyer: New
call object is gonna be created and it's
gonna look up a value of count again but
this time it's cool cup a different value
of count and increment it to one cool.
Any questions before I move on?
>> Student 3: Could you pass
parameters into the second function?
>> Justin Meyer: It is, yeah.
These parameters would show up here and
then they would also
be put in this clause.
So if I pass like increment by or
something like that.
So if I didn't want to increment by one
I could pass an optional increment by.
So I might have increment by as
an argument here and then I might do count
plus equals, well I have to figure out
how to write that so I'd like return the.
Count equals count plus increment
by I could write it that way.
Now, when this call object is created, so
when c2 is created it would actually get
the increment by saved in here.
So when increment by was looked up,
it would find increment here but
I would find count still up here.